
Spring cloud Features
=========================

Spring Cloud focuses on providing good out of box experience for typical use cases and extensibility mechanism to cover others.

Distributed/versioned configuration

Service registration and discovery

Routing

Service-to-service calls

Load balancing

Circuit Breakers

Global locks

Leadership election and cluster state

Distributed messaging


Service discovery:
---------------
	In the cloud, applications can’t always know the exact location of other services. A service registry, such as Netflix Eureka, or a sidecar solution, such as HashiCorp Consul, can help. Spring Cloud provides DiscoveryClient implementations for popular registries such as Eureka, Consul, Zookeeper, and even Kubernetes' built-in system. There’s also a Spring Cloud Load Balancer to help you distribute the load carefully among your service instances.

API gateway:
------------
   With so many clients and servers in play, it’s often helpful to include an API gateway in your cloud architecture. A gateway can take care of securing and routing messages, hiding services, throttling load, and many other useful things. Spring Cloud Gateway gives you precise control of your API layer, integrating Spring Cloud service discovery and client-side load-balancing solutions to simplify configuration and maintenance.

Cloud configuration:
-------------------
   In the cloud, configuration can’t simply be embedded inside the application. The configuration has to be flexible enough to cope with multiple applications, environments, and service instances, as well as deal with dynamic changes without downtime. Spring Cloud Config is designed to ease these burdens and offers integration with version control systems like Git to help you keep your configuration safe.
      Centralized external configuration management backed by a git repository. The configuration resources map directly to Spring Environment but could be used by non-Spring applications if desired.
   
Circuit breakers :
------------------
   Distributed systems can be unreliable. Requests might encounter timeouts or fail completely. A circuit breaker can help mitigate these issues, and Spring Cloud Circuit Breaker gives you the choice of three popular options: Resilience4J, Sentinel, or Hystrix.

Tracing:
---------
   Debugging distributed applications can be complex and take a long time. For any given failure, you might need to piece together traces of information from several independent services. Spring Cloud Sleuth can instrument your applications in a predictable and repeatable way. And when used in conjunction with Zipkin, you can zero in on any latency problems you might have.
   
   
Testing:
--------
   In the cloud, you get extra points for having reliable, trustworthy, stable APIs—but getting there can be a journey. Contract-based testing is one technique that high-performing teams often use to stay on track. It helps by formalizing the content of APIs and building tests around them to ensure code remains in check.

Spring Cloud Contract provides contract-based testing support for REST and messaging-based APIs with contracts written in Groovy, Java, or Kotlin.


  