Medium tasks from LeetCode -- DP and graph


Given an array of integers find a second lowest integer

Trapping rain
finding elements in pascal’s triangle


General java related question. -> InterfacesJava basics,Basic designing
Algo/DS questions -> ComparableComparator

A lot of questions were on concurrent programming and threading.
Multiple questions on file structures.
Questions on git lab, JDBC etc.

Snowcap/ rain Trapping problem
2. Second Smallest element in array

3. Student and grade average problem (famous in other glassdoor reviews)
4. Code Dot product of matrix

5. Hackerrank questions on dynamic programming

Second smallest number
3. Number of islands problem
4. Hashmap design problem in O(1) complexity
5. Pangram problem



----
I don't remember hacker earth question but one was simple and other was count all increasing subsequence of length 3 from a given input integer number.
Then other online coding round happened. One was easy and other was water tapping problem. Solution can be found from geeksforgeeks.
Then face to face round
Design a system to store both name and number and these contacts should searchable by both name and number. Suppose user enter am, then all contacts starting with am should be returned same for contact number. User type 99 then all contacts whose number starts with 99 should be returned.


hackerrank : positional element and string reduce

coder pad: given a dictionary, find if anagram of a string is present



Hackerrank - Find the maximum earnings with which a person should start his day so that he has some money by end of the week. Input was an array of days and minimum amount that he had.

Coderpad - Given a code related to Strings. Find out why all the test cases are failing.


Sort the array in ascending order.
First 2 numbers sum would be the SMALLEST SUBARRAY sum.

Iterate array to calculate total and the max val.
after the 1 iteration , you have total and max val.
Smallest sub array sum = totla - max val


The interview war arranged by phone with coderpad.io for 30 mins. There was 2 tech tasks to resolve online. First one was regarding algorithms and second is duplicate numbers. Quite easy to tackle but there is a set of prepared tests for each task which check the correctness of your solution.

Interview Questions
Print characters occurance and duplicate numbers

Find the second smallest on array.
Find whether the given number is power of 10 or not.
Find the pairs such that there sum will be equal to X.
Find the cycle in a linked list. Linked list working. How hashMap, tree map works. Pseudo code to insert element into Binary search tree (iterative & recursive)
Given an array of integers, and a number ‘sum’, find the number of pairs of integers in the array whose sum is equal to ‘sum’.

Write a function to check if the input number is a power of 10.


Good data structure questions based on resume.
Graph questions regarding level order traversal of a graph.
Missing numbers question.
2 sum problem.
Design patterns.
Functional Interface.
Lamda Expressions.
Minheap and maxheap.
Binary tree basics.
Decorator Design Pattern.

what is final, what is its implication on method,class and variable?


Interview Questions
What is the root class of java ?
Tell me some of the main methods of Object class you know?
What does the method NotifyAll() does ?
What is the use of concurrentHashMap() in multithreading?
What are different kind of Indexes in SQL?
What are difference between DELETE and TRUNCATE in SQL?


1. Why finance?

2. What do you see as your biggest strength?

3. What are three leadership qualities that you possess that you are proud of?

4. Why do you want to work in services?

5. Why Goldman Sachs?

6. What is your weakness? - Perfectionist

7. When have you been in a leadership position?

8. When have you been in a leadership position and failed?

9. When have you been in a group environment and not been the leader?

10.Tell me about your previous work experience.

Interview Questions
Sudo code for Fibonacci Numbers


JPA implementations other than hibernate


====

FIRST ROUND
----------------
One person interview. It was for around 40min.
The interview was full of core java questions. He was asking me of threads,marker interfaces, serialization, synchronization, Timers, deadlocks and that too basic questions.
Also he asked for merge concept of merge sort.

He asked me about quick sort and also randomization in it without he having any idea of basic concepts of randomization. I said that I would pick a random element as pivot and swap it with the last element in the array and perform the partitioning based on it. He was saying that I may then disturb the randomness of it. I said that as the input data distribution is not known we will not be effecting the randomness and hence we can only find expectation on the complexity in randomized algorithms. He didn't understand iota of what I was saying and hence dissatisfied.


He was done with his questions and I answered all of them and was kept waiting for 20 min before the second round started.

SECOND ROUND
-------------------
Two person interview. It was for around 30min as they were having a meeting after finishing my interview formality.

They came and asked me basic questions on collections and few simple puzzles. They also asked me very basic thread questions and synchronization concepts.

One of the interviewer escorted me to the reception and said that HR would get back to me in a day or two. I was confident that if everything is fair I would be called for a HR round but I was bit concerned about the way the interviewers were busy and finishing off the interviews without any seriousness.

Next day I got a mail from HR that I was not selected.



OVERALL EXPERIENCE
--------------------------
Calling for an interview and making me wait for 1:30Hr saying that HR didn't inform them about my coming and completing the interview process as if they were in a hurry made me think that unprofessionalism can be expected from even the so called reputed companies like GS!!!!



How do you design the platform architecture?


System design, cv walkthrough, best practices, reactive systems, SDLC, devops
Kafka APIs Multithreading Reactive programming

nterview Questions
Find first non repeating character in a string.
Answer Question
Find max length of subarray whose sum is greater than given value.
Answer Question
Find max sum of subarray for the given integer array.
Answer Question
Find max product of subarray for the given integer array.
Answer Question
Find count of groups of 1 in a matrix where each group contains more than one 1 and matrix can be traversed only row wise and column wise.
Answer Question
Explain internal working of hash map and some followed up questions based on same.
Answer Question
Why Java does not support multiple inheritance.
Answer Question
Explain diamond problem and it's solutions.
Answer Question
What is hashCode and equals methods, explain with example and override the same

 2 coding questions of medium difficluty on DP again. Following this there were 2 technical rounds - 2 DSA questions in each round. Topics were mostly DP and DFS. I could answer only 1 in each round. Got a rejection mail after about 10 days.

Interview Questions
Most of the problems were on DP


=
st Phone interview:

Briefly introduce yourself and your present project
Define the Java concepts: Abstraction, Inheritance, Polymorphism
Java Collections:
Explain how a HashMap works
ArrayList Vs LinkedList
Agile methodology : Advantages and disadvantages
SQL : Outer Join definition
Difference between clustered and non clustered index
Why do you want to leave your present job?

Followed by 6 technical 1:1 interviews:

They put the candidates under a lot of pressure by asking to finish quickly and they keep asking questions in between.

Lot of project related questions in each of the 6 interviews.

Java:
List the collection framework interfaces and implementations. Define a property of each.
Difference between Set and HashMap?
How can you get a synchronized LinkedList? Does this make the program thread safe?
Compare - Arraylist and LinkedList. And when do you use each of these?
How would you create a Hashmap data structure? How to handle collisions in a hashmap?
What methods you need to override when using object as key in hashmap? Why do you need to override these?
Concurrent HashMap.
Different ways of creating threads in java. Which one is the best.
Difference between String and StringBuilder? What does immutable mean and how does String class become immutable?

Algo:
Given pointer to two nodes in a binary tree, find their common parent. Give its time complexity
Write a sorting algorithm and explain the working with an example for 6 elements. Compare performance with other sorting algos.

Others:
What data structures are used in database indexing. How they are used for a date range query?
Unit testing and why it is required. Why do a unit test on each module when doing a maven/ant build?
Use of subversion – merging, updates, etc
Performance monitoring tools.

HR / Behavioral
Why do you want to leave your present job?
Why financial industry? What will you do if after starting you feel the financial industry is not of your interest?
Why Goldman?
Difference between what Goldman does and what other companies like Bank of America or Chase do?
Did you ever work in a team which did not co operate? How did you handle this situation?
Do you have experience working with global teams?
Questions about role and responsibilities at present job.


============
Online coding round (Hackerrank): 2 easy coding questions; Time: 120 minutes

Game of Book Cricket.
Simple string encoding-decoding problem. https://leetcode.com/discuss/interview-question/334671/goldman-sacks-july-2019-hackerrank-2
After clearing the online test, resume shortlisting takes place and if your resume is shortlisted, further rounds will be conducted.

Round 1 (Coderpad + voice call): Two easy-medium level questions were discussed and you need to write the complete runnable call and pass all the test cases.

Given a String and two words (which occur in the given string), find the minimum distance between two words. Distance between two words is defined as the number of characters between the given two words’ middle characters. The brute-force approach was already implemented but it had some logical bugs, and because of which sample test cases were failing. The objective was to find and fix those bugs and then to add some new test cases and write a code for those test cases as well.
Simple DFS + DP in a 2D matrix to find the minimum cost path.
Note: Round 2 – 6 (Each round took around 60-70 minutes, all rounds were on the same day, Zoom Video Call + Coderpad):


Round 2(DSA):  

Quick introduction
Find the difference between two arrays: Two unsorted arrays are given, and you need to find (arr1 – arr2) and (arr2 – arr1). The difference between the two arrays is defined as all the elements from the first array which are not present in the second array, taking the number of occurrences into consideration.
Example:

arr1: [3, 5, 2, 7, 4, 2, 7] arr2: [1, 7, 5, 2, 2, 9]
arr1 – arr2 = [3, 7, 4]
arr2 – arr1 = [1, 7]
Given an array of citations, calculate the researcher’s h-index. https://leetcode.com/problems/h-index/

The Follow-up question was: https://leetcode.com/problems/h-index-ii/

Next follow-up question: What if we are getting a continuous stream of citations, and we need to calculate the h-index after each input?

Round 3 (DSA, Projects mentioned in the resume):  

A detailed discussion about the projects I have worked on and technologies and design patterns I have used.
Given an imbalanced BST, return the balanced BST.
Given the start and end times of the meetings, find out the maximum number of meetings one can attend. https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-number-of-events-that-can-be-attended/
Puzzle: Given a 4-digit number ABCD, ABCD * 4 = DCBA (reversed number), find the values of A and D.
Round 4 (Java, Design):

Introduction and technical discussion about my recent project
OOPS questions
HashMap internal working
JVM architecture.
How is Java different than other object-oriented programming languages?
Detailed discussion on Garbage collector
You need to design a relational database; how will you design it? Which data structures will you use?
Find the top 3 horses puzzle.
Round 5 (Hiring Manager):

Quick introduction
If you are to design a garbage collector, how will you design it?
What is wrapper class and why do we need it?
What is type erasure and why do we need it?
Why do you want to leave the current organization?
Why GS?
He explained my role in the team
Hired!

The interview experience was smooth and it was very well arranged. On average, the whole procedure takes about 2-2.5 months to complete. 

Tips: 

Make sure you solve a few puzzles before you appear for the interview.
Be confident.
Whether you're preparing for your first job interview or aiming to upskill in this ever-evolving tech landscape, GeeksforGeeks Courses are your key to success. We provide top-quality content at affordable prices, all geared towards accelerating your growth in a time-bound manner. Join the millions we've already empowered, and we're here to do the same for you. Don't miss out - check it out now!