Name a design pattern. Implement Singleton. How to break Singleton.
- Coding question : Given a List of BookNames and number of each Book sold , return the top 10 sold books.
- what is GC, name its types and name the latest GC type is Java 15

Initial round was hackerrank test
1. LRU cache implementation (least recently used cache , can be implemented using linkedhashmap or linked hasp set)
2. Merge 2 sorted arrays and find median

It was DS algo but most of the questions were asked on Oops
It was my initial stage of job change, wasn't prepared well in oops
Couldn't make it

LRU Cache.
Design a polling system.
URL shortening system.

Do you have experience with Kubernetes

Very kind people. It was about .net. Some practical tasks and theoretical. Exception handling. Design patterns. Algorithms. The interview has two technical parts and one parth with the manager of the team



What is OOP. Implement DFS. What is CLI. Abstraction., inheritance...


Algorithms, OS, Networking, OOD, behavior question.

data structure and algorithms, tress, dynamic programming

Rotate a linked list by k places.

why did you used lambda serverless instead of ec2 while building your server from the project?

Questions related to arrays. The second one was k-sum.

File system related
multi-threading related
OS synchronization primitive related

First interview is a quiz in Hackerank. It consists of 5 really easy questions and 3 problems to solve(Difficulty easy-lowmedium on hackerank) . The tricky part here is to manage your time well, because it is limited(You have 75 min. for everithing) .

Second Interview consists of technical question + solving a problem. They made me solve a very simple problem using OOP ehich I was not prepared to at that moment so I did not continue forward.

Interview Questions
Fizz Buzz done in OOP way.

convert string to decade number: given a string contains digital numbers in the form of characters, convert it into a decade number.

top n numbers in a number array: given Ann array contains numerical numbers, print the top n largest numbers.

Interview Questions
convert string to decade number: given a string contains digital numbers in the form of characters, convert it into a decade number.

top n numbers in a number array: given Ann array contains numerical numbers, print the top n largest numbers.
Big O Notation was asked after each white boarding question.


Intersection between two intervals
2. String comparison question
3. Design a system similar to tinyurl

1) This was pure Technical JAVA interview Questions, Same basic questions and then questions on socket programing.
