1)Sum of two number from an array , make it equal to target.
2)Binary tree print respective character from leaf node

Trees related questions
LRU
Rate limiter system design

For DS alog : Dynamic programming print longest increasing sub arrys

.Convert List to Map using Java 8 syntax.
2. Tree Map with custom key.
3. Synchronization

Interview Questions
First Round:

1. function random(){
return {value: 20}
}

const ah = random();
const bn = new random();

console.log(ah) // 10
console.log(bn) // {value: 20}

2. create a memorized function

Solution:
function memoise(fn){
var cache = {};
return function(){
const key = JSON.stringify(arguments);
if(cache[key]){
console.log("already there", cache[key])
return cache[key]
} else {
val = fn.apply(null, arguments)
cache[key] = val;
console.log("its new", val);
return val;
}
}
}

3. create a triangle using css and HTML
solution:

.arrow-up{
width: 0;
height: 0;
border-left: 50px solid transparent;
border-right: 50px solid transparent;
border-bottom: 100px solid blue;
}

4. Clouser, promise questions, new keyword instances in JS


Might be low-level...like write code of a design pattern


It was a system design question to design leetcode, hacker rank like platform.


Android components
MVVM vs MVC vs MVP
Listview vs recyclerview
Lifecycle - Activity , Fragment, Service and its transition
Viewmodels


echnical 1: Check if linkedlist is palindromic or not. Array sorting problem.
Technical 2: All Basics of java and design live streaming app. Spring boot questions.This was stress round, Interviewer was taking interview to reject candidate.
HM round 1: It was techno managerial round. Explain current project, what all challanges in the current project. And Array based algo problem, if an array has 3 types of values, sort them.
Technical 3: Write custom immutable class. Write a program to play shuffled songs. And some spring boot questions.
HM Round 2: Current project, challanges in current project and deep dive into project.\\\\

given : [126,125,67,28, 658] expected: [9, 8, 13, 10, 19] without using a 2 loops

res = list(map(lambda ele: sum(int(sub) for sub in str(ele)), test_list))



1. BFS related
2. Twitter System Design(focus on databases).
3. Twitter System Design(focus on user tweet storage).
4. Building a Auto complete system


started with introduction. asked questions about advanced data structures (linked lists). detect the loop in linked list. I was not able to give the complete solution for the given problem. programming language I have chosen is JAVA



find an element in a rotated sorted array


Create expandable folder tree with React


level order traversal

3 rounds of interviews. First 2 were ds algo. Third was system design. The interviewer did not even know what round was it. So unprofessional. He had problems around indexing structure of db. Being a senior person, i recommend him to learn more and take less interviews


whatsapp design

Round 1
Q1. Find min element in a sorted array rotated at a non-given point. E.g. 4 5 0 1 2 3
Q2. Given a binary tree and two nodes, find if the two nodes are cousins on not.

Round 2
Q1. Design Instagram. HLD design. Junit test cases.
Q2. Spring Boot life cycle and IOC. Some Annotations.
Q3. Singleton pattern.
Q4. Read through a file of 100 lines using multithreading.

Round 3
Q1. Container with most water
Q2. Tell me a situation where you went above and beyond your work.


First round consisted two questions one was LC easy i.e to find max product of two numbers from an array and second question was producer-consumer multithreading problem.
Second round was asked about LRU cache. Interviewer was rude from the beginning which made me anxious and produce bugs in the code. We never reached the part where we have to do a system design question.

Normal questions on JS Basics.


Binary tree burning nodes
Balanced Paranthesis
3 ()()(),((()))...
Sort an array with negative and positive numbers (Square the numbers and sort it in linear time)(-3, -2, -1, 1, 3, 6, 7, 8 ,9)(1, 1, 4, 9, 9, 36, 49, 64, 81)
Fixed Thread Pool Design Full Working Code
Longest string formed by abcbc with no more than k consecutive characters

1. Simple DP program.
Solved it in an optimal way, covered all the edge cases. The interviewer did not understand the approach. I traced the program and also shown the output. Interviewer wanted me to solve the problem in some other way. Not sure what was the expectation.




What is the deadlock ?
Explained the deadlock. Wrote the program. Explained it properly. I used reentrant lock to write the program and to my utter surprise interviewer had absolutely no clue about the extrinsic locks. Explained the locks and their advantages. Think, the interviewer got bit annoyed as interviewer could not ask any questions on the locks.



A Simple String Manipulation Program
I used map to create a look up table. The interviewer was not amused. I told the interviewer about approach and time complexity would be O(n). The interviewer did not even allow me to write the code, just said "Thank You for your time". Did not even allow me to reply back and disconnected the call. Although another 10 mins were remaining in the stipulated time.

One of worst interviews ever. Walmart being such a good brand, never expected this.


 FTP and SFTP how to make secure connection using FSTP(i did not mention anything related to same and he was expecting answer from me) :p
2. What is graphQL and how its different from REST (i did not mention anything related to same and he was expecting answer from me though i answered basic about graphQL) :p
3. Was expecting the spring boot configuration to tell him like one who has mugged up the configuration.


1. FTP and SFTP how to make secure connection using FSTP(i did not mention anything related to same and he was expecting answer from me) :p
2. What is graphQL and how its different from REST (i did not mention anything related to same and he was expecting answer from me though i answered basic about graphQL) :p
3. Was expecting the spring boot configuration to tell him like one who has mugged up the configuration.


There were round and to process these three rounds it took almost a month. The kind of experience I had during this whole process was pathetic specially HR's behavior. They don't bother to respond and not bother about candidate experience/concern. Just scheduling the rounds and gone somewhere. They don't bother to collect feedback and sharing it with candidate. Like, after 14 days, HR came back to me and saying, you had two rounds that day, I thought it was only round you had (I mean.. had no clue about the candidature :D). Such behavior is not expected from brand like Walmart. And, that's the reason you see it's glassdoor rating around 3, which is really low w.r.t. its brand.



3 Rounds over all. First two rounds includes DS and Algo and last round was Design.

1st Round Data Structure
The interviewer was good and touched upon the Linked list, arrays, and string questions.
First, he asked me to introduce myself and have a discussion on my project and previous organization. Then he asked me to write a program to Add 2 linked list. Next, he moves on to the String question and asked me to write and program to print the first occurred element and having 3 frequency.

2nd Round - JAVA
He focused more on multi-threading and seems like he is not interested in listening to all the approaches, he was focusing more on per defined approach which he made up in his mind. He asked me the following questions,
1. Write your own Blocking Queue(Producer consumer problem)
2. Concurrent hash map internals
3. He asked some questions on the future, callable, and thread executor.
4. Asked me to write code for making a class immutable.
5. Few java collection related questions

3rd Round Java and problem solving
The interviewer was quite serious and was not willing to help at all if I stuck somewhere.
First, he asked me to write a program to balance the brackets and asked me to execute the program. Once this was completed he moved to java questions and asked me the following questions,
1. What is special about Strings in java. How String pool works.
2. Write a program for singleton class, he was more focusing on the thread-safe approach.
3. Comparable vs comparator
4. wait vs sleep in threads
5. Blocking queue working
6. He asked to write the SQL query, I didn't remember the exact question, as I am from the NoSQL background.
7. Indexing in the database.
8. Asked me to write a program for reversing a linked list.

4th Managerial round
He was cool guy started the interview with a greeting, Post that he asked to draw the architecture diagram for the project on which I was working in the last organization. He asked a few questions on that, post that he moved to the design questions, where he asked me to design HTML file parser and few questions on the other design pattern too. Lastly, he explained to me about the team which I will be joining.

Interview Questions
Add 2 linked list
Char frequency in String



The opening was for UI/Javascript developer

Totally there were 4 rounds scheduled on the same day.

Round1: DS & Algo - 1HR
Started with array-based question
Linked list based question
BST and graph traversals
All the questions asked was for best time & space complexity
Implement getElementByID

Round2: UI and JS Round - 1.5HR
JS timer events and intervals
JS single-threaded architecture and event loops
Array-based question
React virtual dom internals
how will you handle memory leaks
Promise based question and who to implement timeout feature for async calls
Implement Redux kind of global store, (Impl Pubs-subs pattern and explain Flex architecture)
Flatten deeply nested object into 1D object with '_'
Disadvantage of using closure

Round 3: System Design - 1HR
One Puzzle was asked, 3box with apple orange puzzle
Design an online game platform for Dart --- It must support single and multi-user functionality

Round 4: HM Round - 1HR
More about my projects and career interests
Detailed discussions on my Git projects
Managerial based questions on code review, teamwork, deployment, deliverables, deadlines etc

1.5 weeks later after my interview, Got a call from HR asking for HR round discussions.
A week later after HR discussions, the offer letter was released.

The interview process was very smooth & great.
Thanks and kudos to HR team and panelists for handling it very nice during this pandemic situation.

Interview Questions
Find the first duplicate in the array having the numbers upto length n.
Input: [1,3,5,2,4]
Output: No Duplicate
Input: [1,4,2,4,5,2]
Output: 4

Without extra space
Answer Question
Find the loop in linked list
How to find the node starting the loop
Answer Question
Implement getElementById
Answer Question
Flatten deep nested object:
const nestedData = {
name: 'Abc',
age: '29',
address: {
pincode: '110011',
area: 'bangalore',
state: 'karnataka',
location: {
lat: '122.21',
long: '11.21',
},
phone: '1212121',
},
};

Output:
const op = {
"nestedData_name": "Abc",
"nestedData_age": "29",
"nestedData_address_pincode": "110011",
"nestedData_address_area": "bangalore",
"nestedData_address_state": "karnataka",
"nestedData_address_location_lat": "122.21",
"nestedData_address_location_long": "11.21",
"nestedData_address_phone": "1212121"
}
Answer Question
Reject the async call once the request as reached a certain timeout.
Impl timeout mechanism for async calls

Reject the async call once the request as reached a certain timeout.
Impl timeout mechanism for async calls


Interview Questions
Round1 :
1.Little bit discussion about previous projects.
2. Reason to use particular technologies in project. (like in my case why mongodb used)
3. Find unique pairs of sum in array of unsorted array.
e.g - array a[]= [4,3,1,2,5]
print pairs whose sum is 5.
answer = (1,4), (2,3)

4. In Linked List, a node to be deleted. but in this i am not having refence of head node. I am having reference of that node which need to be deleted and order of linked list also remains same.

e.g - linked list as 1 -> 2-> 3-> 4-> 5->null
Node head reference is at 3 , not at first element, delete 3 from list.

5. What is Singelton Class in java? How to create ?

6. Internal working of Hashmap.


Round 2 :

1. Detailed discussion about project.
2. If my server is capable of handling 10 requests at a time and 100 hits come together, how to handle in that case?
3. Binary Tree DS Questions - Find Height of tree
4. Level Order Traversal Of Binary Tree
5. What improvements you have brought in your project.
6. Name some of key challenges, which you fixed.


Round 3 :

1. Little Discussion On Project.
2. Design Messenger System.
3. Stateful vs Stateless.
4. What is Caching?
5. How redis store data? Why you use it in your project.
6. Rest v/s Soap
7. Why Walmart?


Mirror Image of Tree, OLA System Design, JAVA Question , Few Problem Solving


First Round :
Find maximum element from huge number of elements which can be solved using max heap.
Difference in array elements(can contain duplicate) when rotated.

Second Round:
All java basics including multithreading,synchronization, hashmap etc.
Balance brackets in an expression
Generate all possible substrings from given string
How AVL tree works

Round 3:
Questions on current project architecture.
Difference between columnar vs row based database storage.
Maximize profit from the given stocks.

Round 4:
General discussion about current salary and notice period with the hiring manager.

My all rounds went well and hiring manager told me the feedback is positive and HR will contact me. However HR didn't contact me. After chasing the HR for 3-4 days she said there is some change in the requirement and she is not sure whether the position is relevant now, she said she will get back to me in few days. I waited for another week and after contacting the HR, she said the feedback is negative. A complete waste of time, this is my second bad experience with Walmart, they are conducting interviews and they even not sure whether they have the requirement or not.

Interview Questions
Find maximum element from huge number of elements which can be solved using max heap.
Answer Question
Difference in array elements(can contain duplicate) when rotated.
Answer Question
Balance brackets in an expression
Answer Question
Generate all possible substrings from given string


I got a call from recruiter and was invited for first round of interview in the office. It was problem solving and data structure.
The interviewer was not interested in interviewing, he wanted to show his skills. He opened geeksforgeeks in his laptop and pulled out two questions - one mathematical programming and another dynamic programming.
While I was attempting the mathematical programming, instead of giving hints, he was solving at his own in his book looking at the solution in geeksforgeeks. Once he finished, he showed me this is how you solve it and asked me to move on to the dynamic programming question. I was able to solve the dynamic programming question but couldn't convince him why I used dynamic programming. He was not ready to listen at all and only wanted me to explain in his terms.
Overall it was a pathetic experience. Never expected this from Walmart.

Interview Questions
1. Some math programming question
2. Longest common subsequence


How Javascript internally does the type conversion.
Print all possible words from phone digits


I had bad experience with such a brand name.
First of all, i applied backend openings through LinkedIn which suits my interest but never got the call. (even through my referral friend)

Suddenly some recruiter agency called me out of blue saying we have opening with Walmart but in Android app.

I told him I am interested in server-side work, not app side. he said this has both. but in an interview, Interviewer asked me few basic Android app questions whcih i answer.
I also answer Data Structure related questions. but i told him i am not intersted to work on app side.
why waste the time of everyone?


1.i dont think the screening process is fair. I have seen agencies tied up with HR in previous companies.
2.after interview, i asked for feedback but no email.

luckily i have offers from other 2 product-based companies so i dont care much.

But definitely an unpleasant experience.

Interview Questions
Do you know Kotlin?
1 Answer
Thredpool schedular implementation
1 Answer
something related to BST traversing

1. remove duplicate in linked list (write code)
2. first non repeating char in string (code)
3.discussion about hashmap and internal implementation
4. discussion about hashcode() and equal method in java.
5. questions on java collections

asked system design question- design Facebook

In managerial round asked some questions about database and asked me to design Walmart database (system design)


Find the intersection point between two linked list


Find the optimized route
