
For L1B Visa , The common mistakes to avoid are :

In US embassy Interview : Don’t say a word about common technologies i.e. Java/.net/Big Data/ Hadoop/ AWS . If you say these words you will be outright rejected .
For Specialized skill means , you have made some product or module and you are the only one who has the skills to enhance and support and it will be very expensive to get it done through any other person . It’s highly complex and after KT also there are chance for getting it wrong .
You can use any of your company product enhancement or product itself and project it for your specialization .
Rejection rates are much higher for L1B so prepare well for it .

Wishing you good luck for your Visa . All the queries are welcome on L1 A and L1 B Visa .

---------------

There is no fucking criteria to prove specialisation to US consulate.
I applied for L1B which got rejected by US consulate in Chennai and took 3 months procedure and then applied for L1 Individual(without premium processing) which again got rejected by USCIS itself which took a whole year. Both with same insufficient reason- “They don’t think you are eligible for this position.”

I mean, who the hell are you to decide what a person knows. Are you taking my interview on how to create a godamn linked list, or a trie segment or an algorithm.
They are just taking a few details like your salary, Diem allowance, years of experience, qualification and which company you work for. A 2–3 line statement of what your project and responsibilities are(In case of L1 Individual- hell lot of documents regarding project description in detail, your duties, your colleagues duties, your manager’s duties, your salary structure, HR signed formalities, cover letter draft, this and that which take months to prepare) and then they simply reject your petition. Note that none of the documents mentioned above and non-mentioned justifies whether a person is qualified for the position or not. They just want some criteria as a formality to filter out people like a lottery system similar to H1B so that there will be a cap on how many people entering the country. Not to be expected from the country like US.

Why on earth does this protocol exist, I mean how can they decide someone’s specialisation. It’s my employer who hired me and getting the work done from me, then why does this consulate even interfere. Obviously, the company will send the most eligible person first. And now that my visa got rejected, I see my employer sending other people(not even less qualified but non-qualified at all, who have never worked on the assignment I am working on as I am the sole contributor of it) and they are getting accepted JUST BECAUSE THEY HAVE MORE NUMBER OF YEARS OF EXPERIENCE IN SAME COMPANY even though working in completely different project. They are just going there having fun but not doing the “specialised” work. And the funny thing is, it clearly defies the purpose of creating L1 specialised visa in the first place.

Alternatively, better solution would be to give a lump sum quota to every company like company A can send 20 people from this country to US. company B can send 12 people to their counterpart in US. and so on. This would be a better solution as a company is in a better position, in fact, is the only one in the position to decide who is a better candidate.
So in short, its a lottery system and there is no criteria whatsoever.

--------

My L1 visa interview lasted for less than 15 seconds before i wan granted a Visa

Consulate interviewer: What is your specialization about?

Me: XXX is a global title management tool that is used by the client to merge the international titles with the domestic titles within..... (interviewer cuts me short)

Consulate interviewer: In layman's terms, what is this tool about?

Me: Hmmm…. Ok…. This is a reporting tool that is used by... (cuts me short again)

C. Interviewer: That’s good enough; “so this is a reporting tool”…

Types something on her computer and says that my L1 visa is approved.

It could be as simple as that, but it could also be a 30 minute grilling session that some of my colleagues had gone through to prove that they are real "specialists" in the tools they claim to be specialists on.

If you are a professional working on a vanilla technology such as java or .net, then i suggest this:

Develop a tool (which could be as simple as a "web scraper" using .Net that you seem to be working on, collecting data from different sites and give it a name say John's Web Scraper - JWS) that could be useful in the project that you are working on. Build a good user story around it and how critical this tool could become (or already is) for a client/user community. Let all of the aforementioned items be genuine.

During the consulate interview: Make sure you emphasize that you are the only person (or one among very few) who is an SME on the tool and how critical you and your expertise are for a project in the U.S

Some points to remember:

1. L1 visa a.k.a an emergency/special visa as people call, it is a system within a system to beat the mundane year long wait for a H1 visa.

2. I have known a few colleagues who had devised "made-up" tools that they were apparently subject matter experts in, and cleared the L1 visa interviews. It all depends on how good your "story" is. But an interviewer can easily see through you if your specialization is made-up.

3. But all this scrutiny is prevalent only if the visa is applied and interviewed in India. I applied for the same visa in the U.K (though i had an Indian passport but was working in the UK for sometime before having to move to the US), and my consulate interview went smooth before my visa was approved. So it again depends on the location where the visa is applied and where the interview is scheduled.

Though it looks as ominous it could be, the fact is that Indian nationals get more L1 visas granted than the nationals of any other country year on year


-------------

During L1b visa interview you should focus more on your employer than client. If you stress more about client they may request for client letter. Since interviewer don’t have any technical knowledge you can tell that you have specilization in ABC company’s domain and propritery tools. Make sure you prepared very well to explain what that tool does or domian used for. Even though you work on open source like java,.Net etc you should not talk about that. If you talk about opensource , they might reject your visa. people with open source technologies skillset can be found very easily. They may ask did you develop that tool?? Say yes. Nobody is going to verify that. Tell that you have taken trainings on that tool and want to train more onsite resuorces. Tell that you are going to enhance that tool as per client requirements.


----------------------